- Previously
on "Superman & Lois"...
Luthor's not gonna stop
until he destroys my life.
He even moved here
to make sure.
- This is my daughter,
Elizabeth.
- We flipped
someone at the DOD.
Turns out,
Elizabeth made contact.
She was hoping not to be found.
- Where's Elizabeth now?
- The only person
who knows that is Sam Lane.
- He is without a heart.
- His body can heal itself.
- He cannot create new organs.
- Grandmom said
that we might be able
to bring Dad back
if we can get his heart.
- [groaning]
[screams]
- I wasn't ready.
And now we can never
get him back.
[sobbing]
[dramatic music]
[somber music]
♪ ♪
Can you ever truly explain
how much a person
meant to you?
♪ ♪
Is it even possible?
All the love that you felt...
♪ ♪
All the memories you shared...
As much as I may try,
I don't think words
will ever be enough.
♪ ♪
[dramatic music]
- World without Superman?
Never thought I'd see the day.
- I know he was more
than just an asset to you, Sam.
I'm sorry.
- Appreciate that.
But we need to discuss
how to proceed.
With that monster
still out there and Luthor
pulling its strings,
we don't have much time.
- Got a fallback plan?
- John Henry Irons
and his daughter, Natalie--
I think they'd be more useful
here instead of Metropolis.
Full access, top clearance.
- Done.
Anything else?
♪ ♪
- The serum Bruno Mannheim
made to save his wife,
it brought the other Superman
back to life.
You acquired some, correct?
- A vial's worth, yes.
- I need it.
- Does this have anything to do
with Luthor's monster?
- All due respect, not sure
you've earned the privilege.
- How many times are we
going to discuss this, Sam?
- It was a breach of trust.
- We needed a sample
of Superman's blood
in order to save his life.
- And you didn't tell me.
- You were in the hospital.
- I still should have known!
I was his handler!
- You know, there was
a time when you trusted
the DOD more than Superman.
♪ ♪
- Help me regain that trust.
- I'll have the serum
sent to your office.
But under no circumstance
are you to use it
unless you tell me
what it's for.
Are we clear?
- Crystal.
♪ ♪
Sorry to keep you waiting, pumpkin.
Ever since that alien
showed up,
things around here have been
rowdier than a $10 rodeo.
- Well, actually, sir,
that's--
that's why we're here,
to discuss
S-S-Superman.
- Thought you were here
on boyfriend duty,
not cub reporting.
- [chuckles]
Well, actually--
- There's something
Clark and I want
to tell you about Superman.
- Feel obligated
to share, really.
- You find out where he's from?
- You're never
gonna believe it.
Smallville.
- Smallville?
Isn't that where you grew up?
- Yes, sir.
It--it is.
[chuckles]
- Did you know him?
- You could say that.
- Something
I'm not getting here.
- Sir, I--
I'm him.
Superman, he's--I'm me.
He--we're the same person.
[chuckles]
♪ ♪
- No offense, son, but...
[laughs]
Come on.
- OK.
[chuckles]
♪ ♪
Tada.
- I'll be damned.
- OK, you're not
gonna believe this,
but these eggless pancakes
may be just as good as yours.
Dad, you got to stop
watching that.
- We should have
helped Clark.
- He told us not to.
- Doesn't matter.
He would have helped us.
♪ ♪
[sighs]
- I feel so bad
for Jon and Jordan.
Their dad just died.
- No one should ever have
to lose a parent like that.
♪ ♪
[sighs]
- What?
- Sam called.
- And?
- He wants us at the DOD
full-time.
- Wait, so no Metropolis?
- And no Steelworks.
- Which means no DOD school.
- Doesn't mean forever, just...
not in the immediate future.
I know this isn't
what either of us wanted,
but this is the new reality
we're facing.
The world's
without its protector.
♪ ♪
- When does Grandpa
need to know?
- End of day.
♪ ♪
- [snarling]
[roars]
♪ ♪
- [gasps]
- Mom!
You published the article
about dad dying?
- About Superman dying.
The world needs to know.
People have to understand
that Superman
won't be there
to save them anymore.
- Yeah, well, he would be
if someone had listened.
- Jonathan!
- You know it's true.
[door slams]
♪ ♪
Honey, he didn't mean that.
- Yeah, he did.
♪ ♪
[whooshing]
Dude, I was just
trying to save him.
I'm so sorry.
- I know, all right?
- Look, you have to forgive me.
- Jordan, I'm not blaming you.
Just leave, please.
- You have to forgive me.
- Please--
- I was just--
- Please, will you just
shut up for once
in your stupid life?
I'm so sick of your crap.
Ever since you got powers,
all you've done
is bitch about how hard
everything is!
And you keep saying that you're
trying to do what's right,
but you never do.
You weren't trying to save Dad.
You were trying to be a hero,
and now Dad's dead!
My dad is dead, and I never
get to see him again!
[items clattering]
♪ ♪
[grunting]
Ah!
♪ ♪
[sobbing]
[high-pitched warbling]
[sirens wailing]
♪ ♪
[gasps]
What the hell?
♪ ♪
- Dude.
You got powers.
♪ ♪
- Yes.
[whooshing]
- I can't believe
he's flying already.
- Yeah, well, he's a natural.
- This isn't a contest.
Your brother's been waiting
a long time to get his powers,
even if he hasn't said it.
[whooshing]
- Whoo!
Metropolis, New Carthage,
San Francisco.
- OK, you can fly.
Can you do anything else?
- Yeah, I mean, pretty much
everything Dad could.
- That's not possible.
- Well, I've done heat vision
and ice breath.
Plus, I'm, like,
1,000 times stronger.
Oh, and I even heard
Mr. Cushing
getting Chrissy some new car.
Sounded like a minivan.
- For his sake, I hope not.
- Well, thank God
Jon got powers, right?
We can all rest easy now.
- Jordan.
- What's your problem?
- I'm just saying
what everyone's thinking.
[dramatic music]
Mom, I'm--I'm sorry.
- This isn't your fault.
It's just bad timing.
- Is it, though?
I mean, with Dad
not around,
maybe this happened
for a reason.
- If you're implying
this is destiny somehow--
- I'm not trying to scare you.
I just--I just want to help.
Really, that's it.
♪ ♪
- I need to talk
to your grandfather.
- I really wasn't
expecting all this.
- This is what
normal people do, right?
They go out in nature.
They--they have picnics.
- No, it's sweet.
Thank you.
- You know...[sighs]
We don't have
to take Lane's offer.
- I know.
- You'd have to quit school.
I'd probably have
to close up shop.
- Yeah.
- I'm sure he could find
someone else.
- No, he can't.
It's the truth,
and we both know it.
There is no one else.
It's just us.
♪ ♪
- I just wanted you
to have a normal life.
- [laughs] Yeah, I'm
pretty sure that ship sailed
when evil Superman
destroyed our world.
♪ ♪
Dad, I went to school.
You know, I made friends.
I--I fell in love.
- Matteo's a good kid.
- And he's a part
of this world, which I love.
Last time, we didn't get
to fight to save our world.
This time, we do.
♪ ♪
- That thing killed Superman.
Might kill us too.
- Yeah, maybe.
But if we can't stop it,
who can?
♪ ♪
- Every day, you remind me
more of your mother.
♪ ♪
- I miss her.
- Me too.
♪ ♪
- Saw the article.
Guess everyone knows
we're living in a world
without Superman now.
God help us all.
- It was the right thing to do.
- Kills me to see you
like this.
You anywhere near OK?
- No, but I'm trying to keep
it together for the boys.
- It's a hard thing,
losing your old man,
especially at that age.
- [clears throat]
Listen...
there's something I have
to tell you about Jonathan.
He got powers.
- I'll be damned.
[laughs] Which ones?
- All of them.
- All of them?
Well, if this doesn't
feel like destiny
rapping its hairy knuckles
on the front door.
- Dad.
- Kid's a born leader,
even been training
to be a fireman.
- He is 16 years old,
and he just lost his father.
He is not ready
to save the world.
- What's Jon got
to say about it?
♪ ♪
- He just wants to help.
- Look, if you bring Jon
into the DOD,
we can get him geared up,
train him,
build a team for him.
In my personal opinion,
that's the best course
of action.
I think he's more than capable.
But I didn't tell you
when I was training Jordan.
I won't do that again.
You're his mother.
Whatever choice you make,
I promise I'll respect that.
♪ ♪
[knock at door]
- General,
do you have a minute?
- Close that door, will you?
- Yeah.
- Heh!
I've been hoping you'd drop by.
- Oh.
- You finally ready to talk
about working for the DOD?
- Actually, I'm still
thinking that over.
- Then why are you here?
- Well, sir, I--
I'd like to formally ask you
for Lois' hand in marriage.
- Oh, damn it, son.
That's a terrible idea!
- [laughs]
Well, sir, I--
I'm in love with your daughter.
I--I want to spend the rest
of my life with her.
- Then you need to remedy that!
'Cause married life
isn't in the cards for you.
- General.
- You and I are this world's
last line of defense.
We don't get to sign up for
the friends and family program.
- With all due respect, sir,
you're wrong.
I need Lois.
- It'll fade.
Love always does.
- Yeah, but I do love her.
- So do I.
More than you will
ever understand.
And I would do anything
to protect Lois.
- As would I.
- That were true,
you'd walk away!
♪ ♪
[sighs]
Lois doesn't deserve
this kind of life.
She went through hell already
with her mother.
- I will never leave her.
- Not intentionally.
But you don't know
what's out there,
the evil
that's coming for you.
You may not have faced much of
a threat yet, but believe me,
you will.
And when that day comes,
the worst-case scenario
happens.
She's the one
who's gonna feel that pain
for the rest of her life.
♪ ♪
- I came here to ask
for your blessing.
But I want to be clear--
I do intend
to marry your daughter.
- Then why even bother asking?
- Because I'd like for you
to be a part of our family.
♪ ♪
- Well, you do
what you have to, son.
You know where I stand.
♪ ♪
- And now it's eating
the entrails.
You can't be bothered to visit
the board in Metropolis,
but you'll drop by
to feed that?
- The difference is,
I like him.
♪ ♪
- I can see the appeal.
- [growls]
- Where are we
with General Lane?
- Our asset is in place,
and the carrot
has been presented.
- Loved ones?
- Tend to get
the biggest bites.
- We have one shot at this.
- If this doesn't work,
nothing will get Lane to talk.
♪ ♪
Do you want me
to give the go-ahead?
♪ ♪
- Do it.
- [growls]
[roaring]
[dramatic music]
♪ ♪
- [sniffs, sighs]
- What are you doing?
- This is insane.
How things look,
how they sound,
how they smell--
it's so intense.
- Careful.
That one can backfire on you.
Your father hated
Limburger cheese.
- [chuckles]
- Have a seat, honey.
♪ ♪
- What did Grandpa say?
- There was never any doubt.
He's always had
a soft spot for you.
- [chuckles]
Probably 'cause of football.
- It's more than that.
- OK, so what do you think?
♪ ♪
- What I think
is that your father and I
made a lot of mistakes when it
came to you boys and powers.
We should have told you
years ago
who your father really was,
taught about your heritage,
and prepped you
for what to expect
if your powers manifested.
There are so many things
I would have done differently.
- Doesn't every parent
say that at some point?
- Probably, but it doesn't
make me worry any less.
♪ ♪
- I'm not asking
for some superhero suit
and to instantly be
who Dad was.
I got a lot to learn.
And I want to learn it.
But being able
to do what I can now,
if I can save one family
from losing someone they love
like we lost Dad,
then I have to.
♪ ♪
- OK.
- Really?
- I'll tell your grandfather
we're coming.
Go get your stuff.
- OK.
♪ ♪
Man, I'm really sorry
about what I said before.
I didn't mean it.
- Yeah, you did.
- Jordan.
- Hey, man,
have fun at the DOD.
- I thought one of the rules
of having super-hearing
was that we don't
eavesdrop on each other.
- Easier said than done.
♪ ♪
- You sure
you don't want to come?
- Nah, man.
Good luck.
- OK.
♪ ♪
I know the dynamic here
has changed considerably,
but we'll give you the same
courtesy Superman enjoyed--
best of the best
on your comms team
while you're in the field...
- Sam.
- Full access to our
world-class research labs...
- Grandpa.
- Tech updates to your suits
as they become available.
- Sam, stop.
You don't have to sell us.
We know how it works.
- We're in.
♪ ♪
- Right, I just want
to make sure we're clear
about what you're
stepping into.
You have any questions
or concerns,
we work them out right now.
Superman and I
didn't always have
the best working relationship.
I don't want that for us,
especially with you, kiddo.
- Hey, all we need to know
is that you got our back.
- I got your back.
[door bangs open]
- Sam.
- John Henry
and Natalie Irons--
or how you'll be known around
here, Steel and Starlight--
I'd like you to meet
General Hardcastle
and Squad K.
This is your new team.
- Welcome.
It's an honor.
This is Jonell Jones.
[phone buzzes]
- Good to meet you.
- Phillip Darnell.
- Hi.
Terry Coffey.
- I'll check back in
with you later.
- Everything OK?
- Getting there.
♪ ♪
- [coughs]
[ominous music]
♪ ♪
- Afternoon, Superboy.
- Surprised this place
didn't burn down.
[crackling]
You sure you want
to try that again?
[dramatic music]
♪ ♪
- What do you want?
- There's something
you need to hear.
I think it'll clarify
some things about your mom.
- I'm good.
- You think she has a favorite?
[phone clicks]
- What?
♪ ♪
- You or your brother?
My guess is, she likes to say
she loves you both the same.
- Look, whatever
you're trying to do--
- I told you,
your mother's a liar.
Hear for yourself.
♪ ♪
- Your sons are in danger.
If you want Jordan to live,
press 1.
If you want Jonathan to live,
press 2.
You have 10 seconds to choose.
9, 8...
- Stop this! Stop it!
- What--what is this?
- The other day when you were
at the shipyard,
your mom got this call.
- Jon wasn't even in trouble.
- Ah-ah.
Listen.
- 2, 1.
[touch tone beeps]
You have chosen Jonathan.
He's a good boy
and your favorite son.
Thanks for being honest
for once.
Have a nice day.
[line beeping]
♪ ♪
- That isn't real.
- Ask her yourself.
You'll know
if she's telling the truth.
- It doesn't matter.
- Maybe not,
but you have to wonder...
what else has she been
lying to you about?
♪ ♪
She'll always pick him.
At least now you know.
♪ ♪
[indistinct chatter]
- Can I have a word?
[clears throat, sighs]
Has General Lane
mentioned anything to you
about Bruno Mannheim's serum?
- The stuff he used
on Matteo's mom?
- And on that other Superman.
- Please tell me the DOD
isn't trying to use it.
- We're not.
But I think
General Lane might be.
- For what?
- [sighs]
He wants to make
his own monster
to fight Luthor's.
- I worry if someone
doesn't stop Lane now,
we're gonna have two
of those things to deal with.
♪ ♪
- General Lane, we're almost
ready to begin the ceremony.
Congratulations, General.
- Says you, Father.
- You tried your best to get
the general's blessing, Clark.
There's nothing more
you can do.
- It just doesn't feel fair
to Lois.
- Well, maybe not.
But you said it yourself,
she and her father have a...
difficult relationship.
- I was kind of hoping
this would help with that.
- Always wanting
to be the hero, huh?
- No, no.
It just doesn't feel
entirely right
getting married
without him on board.
That's all.
- OK, then let me ask you this.
Do you love Lois?
- Of course.
- Do you want to start
a family with her?
- More than anything.
- Clark, you're gonna be
a great husband
and a terrific father.
And if the general
can't see that, that's on him.
- Thanks, Mom.
- That's what
I'm here for, honey.
Now, get out there and marry
that wonderful woman.
- General Lane
should be in his office.
- Mom.
- I know where it is.
Thank you.
Hey.
- Dude, what's wrong?
- Did you really choose Jon?
♪ ♪
Luthor played me a tape.
Is it true?
- Jordan, it's not
what you think.
- Both your sons are in danger.
You can only choose one,
and you chose your favorite.
- That's not true.
- Don't lie to me.
You chose him.
I heard you.
- Mom, what's he talking about?
- Honey, there was no time.
I did not know
what was happening.
And you were the one
with powers.
- Luthor knew I had powers.
He wasn't even in trouble.
I was the one being attacked!
- Sweetie, I didn't know that.
- Would it have even mattered?
- Of course it would have.
I have always
loved you both the same.
- He said you'd say that.
- Lex Luthor is a liar.
- And you're not?
You sent him to prison for
a crime he didn't even commit.
- Don't you ever
say that to me again!
Not ever!
That man killed your father.
Jordan, you need to understand,
Lex Luthor is using you
to hurt me.
- Right.
'Cause I'm so weak.
- Jordan.
[whooshing]
♪ ♪
- Lois, is that you?
Jones.
- Sorry, General.
♪ ♪
- I know my daughter
came to see you, General.
Now you're gonna tell me
where to find her.
- Like hell I am.
- He's threatening my family.
- Damn it, Jones.
I gave that young lady my word.
We cannot give in to threats.
- Either you give me
Elizabeth now,
or I can send something
that doesn't need a gun.
- We got to get people
out of here.
- You didn't say
anything about that.
[both grunting]
[gunshot]
- [groaning]
- So sorry, sir.
♪ ♪
[grunts]
[breathing heavily]
♪ ♪
[heartbeat thumping]
- [breathing shallowly]
[dramatic music]
♪ ♪
[gasps]
- Sam, Sam!
- Grandpa.
My God, what happened?
- What did you do?
- Go tell everyone
to get the hell out of here.
Luthor's sending
that thing for me.
Go, please.
♪ ♪
Give these to Lois.
- Sam.
- You need to stop it.
Suit up, John.
And then you need to promise me
you'll do exactly what I say.
♪ ♪
- You need to evacuate now.
- Where is it?
- Nothing yet, ma'am.
- General, kryptonite
has been detected
moving in the atmosphere.
- 20 seconds out
and approaching fast.
- Time to move.
[indistinct chatter]
- Dad?
- Be right there.
[whooshing]
♪ ♪
[indistinct yelling]
- 15 seconds, Natalie.
- You ready, Bug?
- We got this, Dad.
♪ ♪
- 8 seconds.
- Oh, my God.
- Split formation.
Use all the yellow
solar flares,
all of them at once.
Lock on target.
- Got it.
- 4 seconds.
- Don't hold back.
- 3 seconds.
2 seconds.
1 second.
[explosion]
- [grunts]
♪ ♪
- Dad!
- [computer trilling]
- [roars]
♪ ♪
[indistinct yelling]
[roars]
- Engage!
- Cease fire!
- Dad?
- Oh, pumpkin, it's OK.
It's OK.
You got to trust me.
- [snarling]
♪ ♪
- I can't convince you
to walk away, can I?
- Dad, I am literally
about to exchange my vows.
I think it's time to put
this idea to rest, don't you?
- My concern only comes
from a place of love.
I just didn't want you
to make the same mistakes
your mother and I made.
- We are nothing
like you and Mom.
- Stubborn, driven,
career-oriented
young woman
marries a service-minded,
dutiful, workaholic young man?
It's a recipe for disaster.
Believe me.
Especially with kids.
- We are entering this marriage
with our eyes wide open.
- I'm just saying, you fell
in love with Clark Kent,
but you're marrying Superman.
- And they both make me happier
than I have ever been.
Please, Dad, trust me.
Trust in us.
♪ ♪
- OK, pumpkin.
I trust you.
I still have reservations.
I will for a long time.
But I see
how much you love him.
I know how much he loves you.
♪ ♪
So yeah.
[laughs]
Yes, you have my blessing.
♪ ♪
- Thanks, Daddy.
- You look so beautiful.
[Wagner's "Bridal Chorus"
playing on piano]
I guess it's time.
♪ ♪
- I know how scary
this is for you.
But it means the world to me.
♪ ♪
- I'll always be brave
for you, pumpkin.
Always.
♪ ♪
You know my answer, Luthor.
- Tell me where Elizabeth is.
- I promised to protect her.
- Where is she?
- I gave her my word.
- Tell me now!
- I promised her I'd be brave.
- Last chance, General.
- Stand down.
- Daddy, what are you doing?
♪ ♪
- You're gonna be OK, pumpkin.
- Do it!
- [grunts]
♪ ♪
[bones crack]
- No!
- [roars]
♪ ♪
- No, no!
[sobbing]
[dramatic music]
- I need to take Sam's body.
It's what he wanted.
Just go back to the farm.
Nat will explain everything.
♪ ♪
- I need your help.
- John Henry Irons.
♪ ♪
- We don't have much time.
- What's going on?
♪ ♪
- I'm sorry, sweetie,
but your grandfather--
♪ ♪
- That thing killed him.
- [sighs]
He died protecting us.
- Actually...
♪ ♪
It was more than that.
- We're gonna use
General Lane's heart
to bring back Superman.
- But his heart
will not suffice.
It is from a human.
- Lane injected himself
with a serum containing
Superman's blood.
That blood was flowing
through his heart
right before he died.
- I fear that is not the same.
- It is the closest
we're gonna get.
Help me,
before the serum wears off.
♪ ♪
- I don't understand.
Why did he have
to use his own heart?
- Grandpa was searching
for a donor.
But after he got shot,
there wasn't any time.
Nobody else knew about
the plan, so it had to be him.
- So when he went outside,
he knew what was gonna happen.
♪ ♪
- How do we know
if it'll even work?
♪ ♪
- Grandpa says
we have to have hope.
- There.
The new heart is being
prepared for transfer.
- How long will it take?
- The procedure itself
is not long.
But if Kal is to return,
it will take many days.
And even then, I have concerns.
♪ ♪
- There is one more thing.
He made this for you,
right before.
♪ ♪
- Hey, pumpkin.
Sorry to be so rushed here,
but...[sighs]
Looks like my time's
about to run out.
And--and before
that happens, I--
I wanted to tell you...
[laughs]
You're the best thing
that ever happened to me.
♪ ♪
I was closed off
and set in my ways.
And you and Clark,
you insisted on making me
part of your family.
And--and that has been
the greatest joy of my life.
♪ ♪
Those boys and Nat, I can't--
I can't put into words
how much--
how much I love them.
♪ ♪
And you.
[laughs]
♪ ♪
You have always been
my North Star.
You made me a better man.
You--you made me a dad.
I'm so, so proud
to be your father.
♪ ♪
- We don't have much time,
Sam.
It's almost here.
♪ ♪
- Clark, he once told me
he'd always be there for you,
and I--I didn't get it then.
I do now.
♪ ♪
He's gonna come back.
And once they get my heart
inside him,
I'll be there, too,
for every beat, ev--
every single beat.
♪ ♪
- Dad?
- Be right there.
- I guess--
I guess this
is goodbye for now.
I love you, pumpkin,
more than you could
possibly know.
- I love you.
♪ ♪
Can you ever truly explain
how much a person
meant to you?
♪ ♪
Is it even possible?
All the love that you felt...
♪ ♪
All the memories
that you shared,
as much as I may try,
I don't think words
will ever be enough.
♪ ♪
But I do know there is
no one else in the world
I would have wanted as my dad.
♪ ♪
I love you, Dad.
You were always my hero.
♪ ♪
[ominous music]
- [inhales sharply]
[heartbeat thumping]
- Greg, move your head.